README.md, before:

# ETL Project Group 8

## Background
This repository contains a group project that revolved around the concept of *ETL (Extracting, Transforming and Loading)*. We were given a week to select *2 or more* sources of data and work closely with our team through all phases of the ETL process. After looking through various datasets, our group decided upon doing data analysis on climate changes over time in the US in the *last 25 years* (1995-2020). 

## Extract
### Original Data Sources and How Our Data Was Formatted
Our original data came from two sources. The first, was a Kaggle dataset documenting `Daily Temperature of Major Cities`. The second was a collection of Pre-Generated Data files of Air Data from the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)'s website. You can find both of these sources in the [`Resources`](Resources) folder of our repository under the [`Daily Temperature of Major Cities`](Resources/Daily%20Temperature%20of%20Major%20Cities) and [`EPA_annual_conc_by_monitor`](Resources/EPA_annual_conc_by_monitor) folders respectively. Each folder contains a zip of the data as well as a link which takes you to the source's page online. 

## Transform
### Data Cleaning/Transformation That Was Required
While there was a lot of data in the Kaggle dataset concerning cities around the world, our team figured the best way to utilize both datasets was to focus solely on the US. 

We first took both datasets and cleaned them up via separate Jupyter Notebooks. In the [`us_temp_analysis`](main/us_temp_analysis.ipynb) notebook, we used Pandas with the `Daily Temperature of Major Cities` data and kept only the US data rows and exported that dataframe as a CSV called [`US_Temp_1995_2020.csv`](Resources/US_Temp_City_List.csv). 

## Load
### Our Final Database, Tables/Collections, Why This Was Chosen

Commit message:

Updated ReadMe File with Transform section

README.md, after:

# ETL Project Group 8

## Background
This repository contains a group project that revolved around the concept of *ETL (Extracting, Transforming and Loading)*. We were given a week to select *2 or more* sources of data and work closely with our team through all phases of the ETL process. After looking through various datasets, our group decided upon doing data analysis on climate changes over time in the US in the *last 25 years* (1995-2020). 

## Extract
### Original Data Sources and How Our Data Was Formatted
Our original data came from two sources. The first, was a Kaggle dataset documenting `Daily Temperature of Major Cities`. The second was a collection of Pre-Generated Data files of Air Data from the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)'s website. You can find both of these sources in the [`Resources`](Resources) folder of our repository under the [`Daily Temperature of Major Cities`](Resources/Daily%20Temperature%20of%20Major%20Cities) and [`EPA_annual_conc_by_monitor`](Resources/EPA_annual_conc_by_monitor) folders respectively. Each folder contains a zip of the data as well as a link which takes you to the source's page online. 

## Transform
### Data Cleaning/Transformation That Was Required
While there was a lot of data in the Kaggle dataset concerning cities around the world, our team figured the best way to utilize both datasets was to focus *solely* on the US. 

We first took both datasets and cleaned them up via separate Jupyter Notebooks. In the [`us_temp_analysis`](main/us_temp_analysis.ipynb) notebook, we used Pandas with the `Daily Temperature of Major Cities` data and created a dataframe with only the US data rows via the `Country` column. That dataframe was then exported as a CSV called [`US_Temp_1995_2020.csv`](Resources/US_Temp_1995_2020.csv). As a reference, we pulled the `State` and `City` columns to create another csv using a dataframe that contained a list of all the unique cities in the `US_Temp_1995_2020.csv` called [`US_Temp_City_List.csv`](Resources/US_Temp_City_List.csv).

For the [`us_epa_analysis`](main/us_epa_analysis.ipynb) notebook, we loaded all of the individual files from 1995-2020. Then we extracted each of the 4 readings in the file into individual dataframes for each reading and pulled the following columns: 
..*'Parameter Name',
..*'Year',
..*'Sample Duration',
..*'Pollutant Standard',
..*'Metric Used',
..*'Method Name',
..*'Units of Measure',
..*'1st Max Value',
..*'1st Max DateTime',
..*'State Name',
..*'County Name',
..*'City Name'
Each subsequent reading has the same columns with 2nd, 3rd, 4th, etc... Max Value and Max DateTime columns. 

## Load
### Our Final Database, Tables/Collections, Why This Was Chosen
